We're going to group all words by email and to do that.
We'll use the pandas group by method.
Let me add a markdown cell here that reads combine can't spell.
Combine currencies with the pandas group buying method.
Now I'm guessing that you will have used Excel Microsoft Excel at some point in the past and in excel
as a very powerful functionality called a pivot table.
And this group by method works in a very very similar way it will allow us to group the occurrences
by document I.D. wordy and label and then we can sum up our occurrences.
Let me show you.
Train underscore grouped as equal to sparse on the squat train underscore the F dot group by open synthesis
and I will provide a list.
Square brackets.
Single quotes.
On a school I.D. comma single quotes word on a school I.D. comma.
Single quotes label and the very end.
We're going to chain another method called namely the summation so dot some at the end will sum up our
occurrences after they've been grouped but I think.
Seeing is believing.
So let me show you what this looks like.
So train on a score grouped dot head.
Well show us the result.
Here we go.
What we see here is that for our document without zero our first document we've got a bunch of words
in here that are grouped together by ideas.
The word with Idea Number Zero occurs twice in this first email.
This is all that this table is showing us right here.
Now you might say All right well what's what's what's that word idea number zero.
What's what's what's zero.
So we can pull that up right Goodhart vocabulary and we can say dot at square brackets zero comma single
quotes vocab and a score.
Would this if you recall was the column name in our data frame.
And this here is the index name which corresponded to our word I.D. the actual word that occurs twice
in our vocabulary is h TTP.
Why does this occur twice.
Well it's because there's two hyperlinks in our email the original email.
Right.
A document added zero.
We can pull up with data dot message square brackets zero and this e-mail reads Dear homeowner interest
rates are at their lowest level blah blah.
If I look further down in the text I see the first hyperlink here and I see the second hyperlink here.
This is why the word HDP appears twice in this document.
So grouped by function combined with the summation method seems to have worked really well.
The thing I would quite like though is to have less of this pivot table feel to it and repeat the document
daddy on every single row we can do that with train grouped equals.
So we're just gonna overrated right train grouped don't reset index reset index will make our document
D appear on every single row train grouped don't head.
We'll show you exactly that.
Fantastic.
Let's take a quick look at the tail of this data frame as well.
Train on a score grouped dot tail parentheses gives us this result we're get you to the same very quick
sense check on this result as well in particular let's take a look at what word corresponds to one thousand
nine hundred and twenty three.
It appears to occur twice in this e-mail.
Now you can either work ahead or follow along with me.
But we've done this already vocab dot and square brackets one thousand nine hundred and twenty three
comma single quotes vocab underscore word.
This gives us the result.
Welch which is a very odd word right and doesn't quite seem like a like a real word but it could be
a stem word right.
Me So maybe that's why it's a bit strange.
Let's pull up the actual message and see why this word appears twice data dot message square brackets
five thousand seven hundred and ninety five.
This brings up quite a short e-mail and it appears that Welch is actually a name.
It's the last name of this guy Brent Welch a software architect.
And the word appears again in his email address which is at the very end of this e-mail.
So this is why it's here.
So I'm quite happy about this.
I think this is this is good.
This seems to pass the sense check.
The only thing I'd be quite curious to find out now is how big of a reduction we've achieved in the
number of rows from before.
So if I say train on a score grouped dot shape then I can see that we've reduced the size of our data
frame quite a bit.
We've gone from four hundred and fifty thousand all to approximate two hundred and sixty five thousand
rows.
That's still a lot but it's about a 40 percent reduction.
And I think this puts us in a really good place to save our work so let's do that now that a very quick
markdown cell here.
US 1 c.
Training data as Dot T X T file in the previous lessons we've saved our files once before as a dump.
Jason File and as a dot CSP file this is how we saved our files to our disk previously.
Now let's save a file as a plain text file.
And for this we're going to use num PIs functionality.
But before we do that we're gonna need a relative file path at the top of our notebook.
That way sits nicely with its friends.
Now I'm planning to save this file in a slightly different folder right.
But first let's give it a name.
I'm want to call it training on a school data on a school file and I'll set that equal to spam data
forward slash 0 2 on the school training forward slash train hyphen data Dot T X T I'll be adding our
text file to this folder right here now.
Be sure to hit shift enter on your cell with your constants and then join me down here at the bottom
of the notebook with NDP dot save t x t parentheses training data file comma train grouped comma F.M.
t is equal to single quotes percent.
D If I hit shift tab on my keyboard to bring up the quick documentation we see that this is the file
name including the relative file path.
This here the second argument is the data and the third argument is f empty which stands for format
if I hit the plus sign here and scroll down then I can see that our format argument requires a string
or a sequence of strings.
This essentially allows us to specify the number format.
Lucky for us we're just dealing with integers.
If I bring up my folder here side by side and hit shift enter now then I should see my text file appear
right here before I open this text file and people signed let me show you what the columns are called
in Jupiter notebook.
So train underscore grouped dot columns.
We'll bring up our column names that stock I.D. where daddy label an occurrence
now let's look at this text file.
If I open it up in my text that it's here then I can see the four columns clearly outlined.
The first one is my document I.D. The second number here is the word I.D. The third number is the category
or label.
It's the first message it is in fact a spam email.
And that fourth number here is the occurrence of the word with this I.D..
Looking at line 16 here the word with I.D. 105 occurs twice in this spam email.
So I think that almost wraps it up except we haven't done this for our test data yet.
And that's where I want to throw it over to you as a challenge.
Can you create a sparse matrix for the test data and then group all the occurrences of the same word
in the same email together just like we did with the training data after you've done all that saved
a data as a text file.
Now I realize you're gonna have to save that data to some plays and give it a file name.
So let's do that right now so that you and I have the same file names going forward scrolling up to
our constants.
I'm just quickly going to copy this relative path pasted in and then change the file name here to test
and change the constant name from training to test as well to test on the score data on this file is
equal to this relative path file name and extension right here.
Now I don't have to ask you to pause the video because I want to show you the solution in the next lesson
I'll see you there.